- [Instructor] Before we dive into Spring Data,
let's look at the concept of object to relational mapping,
and how it relates to Java Persistence API.
If you've already used ORM frameworks like Hibernate,
you can skip this chapter altogether
and move on to the next.
A classic problem in programming is mapping
the physical model to the logical model.
Typical physical models are relational database repository,
and a logical model is are the Java domain objects.
It's possible to do ORM in plain vanilla Java,
but it's nasty.
First you must open a transaction,
query the database which returns the records,
for each record iterate through the fields,
for each field extract the data invoking
the proper type conversion,
map the data to the Java object or object attribute,
and close the transaction.
Queries that modify the database require
committing the transaction or rolling
it back if an error occurs.
Programming this way is tedious.
The code is difficult to refactor and maintain.
Who wants to do this?
Not me.
Object to relational mapping frameworks
solve this problem.
With an ORM framework a developer declares
metadata to associate Java classes and attributes
to database tables and columns.
The framework then handles the actual database interactions.
So the code is abstracted away from the database.
This makes it lighter and easier to maintain.